khal v0.10.0 released
=====================

.. feed-entry::
        :date: 2019-03-25

This is not only the first bugfix release in more than a year, but also the
first release containing new features in nearly two years.

v0.10.0 contains some breaking changes from earlier versions of khal, most
notably the removal of the default command [1]_. For users who want the old
functionality back, a shell function seems to be the best option. Please use the
wiki_ to share your solutions. Have a look at the Changelog_ for more changes
and fixes.

With this release I want to bring the aforementioned changes to more people,
find (and fix) as many more bugs as possible and then release a version 1.0.

For convenience issues, khal will only be available on pypi_ in the future, with
minor versions (v0.10.x) not getting announced here any more. Users and packagers
who want to stay on a current version of khal are therefore advised to watch
pypi_ for new versions.

.. Important::

   **Contributors and maintainers wanted**

   As I find myself having less and less time to devout to khal, I'm looking for
   more developers and maintainers. Even if you are not a python developer, your
   help with helping new users and triaging and prioritizing bugs is very much
   appreciated.

   If you don't know how to contact the current team, open an `issue on github`_.

   **vdirsyncer**, which many khal users are probably dependend on, is also
   looking for new maintainers_.


.. [1] The implementation of the default command proved to be a source of
   constant headache for users and developers alike. This was due to the library chosen
   for handling argument parsing.

   Feel free to share other suggestions in the wiki_.

.. _pypi: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/khal/
.. _issue on github: https://github.com/pimutils/khal/issues
.. _issues: https://github.com/pimutils/khal/issues
.. _wiki: https://github.com/pimutils/khal/wiki/Default-command-alternatives
.. _changelog: changelog.html#id2
.. _vdirsyncer: https://github.com/pimutils/vdirsyncer
.. _maintainers: https://github.com/pimutils/vdirsyncer/issues/790
